# actomyosin

actomyosin ac·to·my·o·sin | ˌaktəˈmīōs(ə)n | noun Biochemistry a complex of actin and myosin of which the contractile protein filaments of muscle tissue are composed. ORIGIN 1940s: from actin + myosin.

# actor

actor ac·tor | ˈaktər | noun 1 a person whose profession is acting on the stage, in movies, or on television: fans now recognize James more as an actor than as a singer | the director had already seen more than 700 actors for the lead role. • a person who behaves in a way that is not genuine: in war one must be a good actor. 2 a participant in an action or process: employers are key actors within industrial relations. DERIVATIVES actorish | ˈaktəriSH | adjective USAGE In the time of Shakespeare female roles were played by boys or men, and women did not appear on stage in England until after the Restoration of 1660. Female performers were then called either actors or actresses—it was only later that actor became restricted to men—and it seems that we are returning to the original situation. Although there is still an awards category at the Oscars called Best Actress, the gender-neutral term actor is now widely used for men and women. See also -ess1 ORIGIN late Middle English (originally denoting an agent or administrator): from Latin, ‘doer, actor’, from agere ‘do, act’.

# actress

actress ac·tress | ˈaktrəs | noun a woman whose profession is acting on the stage, in movies, or on television: she is one of the great actresses of her generation. • a woman who behaves in a way that is not genuine: I became a very good actress and they nearly always believed me. PHRASES as the actress said to the bishop (also as the bishop said to the actress) British English informal said humorously to imply that an innocent remark contains a sexual innuendo: it all became too big for me, as the actress said to the bishop | I couldn't quite manage it in the end, as the actress said to the bishop. USAGE See actor ORIGIN late 16th century (in sense ‘woman who performs an action’): from actor + -ess1. The main current sense is first recorded in the early 17th century.

# Acts

act | ak(t) | verb [no object] 1 take action; do something: they urged Washington to act | he denied the charges, claiming that he had acted in self-defense | [with infinitive] : we must act to reduce pollution. 2 [with adverbial] behave in the way specified: they followed the man who was seen acting suspiciously | he acts as if he owned the place. 3 take effect; have a particular effect: blood samples are analyzed to find out how the drug acts in the body | [with infinitive] : they should remove taxes that act to suppress demand. 4 perform a fictional role in a play, movie, or television production: she acted in her first professional role at the age of six | [with object] : he acted the role of the king. • [with complement] behave so as to appear to be; pretend to be: I acted dumb at first. noun 1 a thing done; a deed: a criminal act | the act of writing down one's thoughts | an act of heroism. • (Acts or Acts of the Apostles) a New Testament book immediately following the Gospels and relating the history of the early Church. 2 [in singular] a pretense: she was putting on an act and laughing a lot. • [with adjective or noun modifier] a particular type of behavior or routine: he did his Sir Galahad act. 3 a written ordinance of Congress, or another legislative body; a statute: the act to abolish slavery. • a document attesting a legal transaction. • (often acts) dated the recorded decisions or proceedings of a committee or an academic body. 4 a main division of a play, ballet, or opera: the first act. • a set performance: her one-woman poetry act. • a performing group: an act called the Apple Blossom Sisters. PHRASES act of God an instance of uncontrollable natural forces in operation (often used in insurance claims): the flooding was surely an act of God. act of grace a privilege or concession that cannot be claimed as a right: the bonus remains a payment made as an act of grace. catch someone in the act (usually be caught in the act) surprise someone in the process of doing something wrong: the thieves were caught in the act. get one's act together informal organize oneself in the manner required in order to achieve something: he could be out of work if he does not get his act together. get in on the act (also be in on the act) informal become or be involved in a particular activity, in order to gain profit or advantage: many German breeders want to get in on the act. a tough act to follow (also a hard act to follow) an achievement or performance that sets a standard regarded as being hard for others to measure up to: it was not easy being the second President of the United States; George Washington was a tough act to follow. in the act of in the process of: they photographed him in the act of reading other people's mail. PHRASAL VERBS act as (act as someone or something) fulfill the function or serve the purpose of: they need volunteers to act as foster parents | a five-year sentence will act as a deterrent. act for (also act on behalf of) (act for someone) represent someone on a contractual, legal, or paid basis: he chose an attorney to act for him | you are not authorized to act on my behalf. act from (also act out of) (act from something) be motivated by: you acted from greed | Palmer insisted he was not acting out of self-interest | is she acting out of love, guilt, or a combination of both?. act on | ˈakt än, ˈakt ôn | 1 (act on something) take action according to or in the light of: I shall certainly act on his suggestion. 2 (act on something or someone) have a particular effect on: the drug acts on the brain to curb appetite | the applause acted on her like a shot of adrenaline. act out | ˌakt ˈout | 1 (act something out, act out something) perform a narrative as if it were a play; translate something into action: students were encouraged to act out the stories | were there any early indications that he was getting ready to act these fantasies out?. • Psychoanalysis perform an action or actions thought to provide an outlet for emotional or mental conflicts. 2 mainly North American English behave badly, especially when unhappy or stressed: many children who act out while awaiting placement in a healthcare facility end up in juvenile detention | kids act out in school when their needs are not being met or there are other problems at home. act up | ˌakt ˈəp | 1 informal behave badly: all children talk back and act up from time to time. • (of a thing) fail to function properly: the plane's engine was acting up. 2 British English be promoted to a more senior position on a temporary basis: she has been acting up as a consultant in public health. ORIGIN late Middle English: from Latin actus ‘event, thing done’, act- ‘done’, from the verb agere, reinforced by the French noun acte.

# actual

actual ac·tu·al | ˈak(t)SH(əw)əl | adjective 1 existing in fact; typically as contrasted with what was intended, expected, or believed: the estimate was much less than the actual cost | those were his actual words | officials concede that the actual number of infections may be closer to 8,000. • used to emphasize the important aspect of something: the book could be condensed into half the space, but what of the actual content?. • informal used for emphasis in various phrases expressing amazement, disbelief, or disapproval: Are you out of your actual mind? You really want to go back in there? | the only mystery by the end of the film is what the actual hell it was about. 2 existing now; current: using actual income to measure expected income. PHRASES in actual fact used to emphasize a comment, typically one that modifies or contradicts a previous statement: people talk as if he were a monster—in actual fact he was a very kind guy. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French actuel ‘active, practical’, from late Latin actualis, from actus (see act).

# actuality

actuality ac·tu·al·i·ty | ˌak(t)SHəˈwalədē | noun (plural actualities) actual existence, typically as contrasted with what was intended, expected, or believed: the building looked as impressive in actuality as it did in magazines | a mission was sent to investigate the actuality of the situation. • (actualities) existing conditions or facts: the grim actualities of prison life. ORIGIN late Middle English (in the sense ‘activity’): from Old French actualite or medieval Latin actualitas, from actualis ‘active, practical’, from actus (see act).

# actualization

actualize ac·tu·al·ize | ˈak(t)SH(əw)əˌlīz | (British English also actualise) verb [with object] make a reality of: he had actualized his dream and achieved the world record. DERIVATIVES actualization | ˌak(t)SH(əw)əˌlīˈzāSHən | (British English also actualisation) noun

# actualize

actualize ac·tu·al·ize | ˈak(t)SH(əw)əˌlīz | (British English also actualise) verb [with object] make a reality of: he had actualized his dream and achieved the world record. DERIVATIVES actualization | ˌak(t)SH(əw)əˌlīˈzāSHən | (British English also actualisation) noun

# actually

actually ac·tu·al·ly | ˈak(t)SH(əw)əlē | adverb 1 as the truth or facts of a situation; really: we must pay attention to what young people are actually doing. 2 [sentence adverb] used to emphasize that something someone has said or done is surprising: he actually expected me to be pleased about it!. • used when expressing a contradictory or unexpected opinion or correcting someone: “Tom seems to be happy.” “He isn't, actually, not any more.”. • used to introduce a new topic or to add information to a previous statement: he had a thick Brooklyn accent—he sounded like my grandfather actually.

# actuarial

actuarial ac·tu·ar·i·al | ˌak(t)SHəˈwerēəl | adjective relating to actuaries or their work of compiling and analyzing statistics to calculate insurance risks and premiums: an actuarial consulting firm | faulty actuarial assumptions. DERIVATIVES actuarially | ˌak(t)SHəˈwerēəl | adverb

