# aerosol

aerosol aer·o·sol | ˈerəˌsôl | noun a substance enclosed under pressure and able to be released as a fine spray, typically by means of a propellant gas. • a container holding an aerosol. • Chemistry a colloidal suspension of particles dispersed in air or gas: the organisms are spread in the aerosols generated by showers. ORIGIN 1920s: from aero- + sol2.

# aerosphere

aerosphere noun rare the body of air surrounding the earth; the atmosphere: the aerosphere influences both daily and seasonal movements of organisms.

# aerostat

aerostat aer·o·stat | ˈerōˌstat | noun an airship or hot-air balloon, especially one that is tethered. ORIGIN late 18th century: from French aérostat, from Greek aēr ‘air’ + statos ‘standing’.

# aes

Æ (also æ) noun a letter used in Old English to represent a vowel intermediate between a and e and from the 16th century onwards used in Latin or Latinized Greek words, representing an original diphthong ae or ai. See also ash2

# Aesculapian

Aesculapian Aes·cu·la·pi·an | ˌeskəˈlāpēən | adjective archaic relating to medicine or physicians. ORIGIN late 16th century: from Aesculapius, the Latin name of the Greek god of medicine, + -ian.

# Aesculapius

Asclepius As·cle·pi·us | əˈsklēpēəs, aˈsklēpēəs | (Aesculapius | ˌeskəˈlāpēəs |) Greek mythology the god of healing and medicine, son of Apollo.

# aesthete

aesthete aes·thete | ˈesˌTHēt | (also esthete) noun a person who has or affects to have a special appreciation of art and beauty: Paris became home to a heady mix of radical thinkers, artists, and aesthetes from all corners of the globe. ORIGIN late 19th century: from Greek aisthētēs ‘a person who perceives’, or from aesthetic, on the pattern of the pair athlete, athletic.

# aesthetic

aesthetic aes·thet·ic | esˈTHedik | (also esthetic) adjective concerned with beauty or the appreciation of beauty: the pictures give great aesthetic pleasure. • giving or designed to give pleasure through beauty; of pleasing appearance: the law applies to both functional and aesthetic objects. noun [in singular] a set of principles underlying and guiding the work of a particular artist or artistic movement: the Cubist aesthetic. ORIGIN late 18th century (in the sense ‘relating to perception by the senses’): from Greek aisthētikos, from aisthēta ‘perceptible things’, from aisthesthai ‘perceive’. The sense ‘concerned with beauty’ was coined in German in the mid 18th century and adopted into English in the early 19th century, but its use was controversial until much later in the century.

# aesthetically

aesthetically aes·thet·i·cal·ly | esˈTHedək(ə)lē, əsˈTHedək(ə)lē | adverb in a way that gives pleasure through beauty: the buildings and gardens of the factory have been aesthetically designed and laid out. • with regard to beauty: an aesthetically pleasing landscape | his naive use of rhyme makes his poetry sound aesthetically amateurish.

# aesthetician

aesthetician aes·the·ti·cian | ˌesTHəˈtiSHən | (also esthetician) noun 1 a person who is knowledgeable about the nature and appreciation of beauty, especially in art. 2 North American English a beautician.

