# adumbration

adumbrate ad·um·brate | ˈadəmˌbrāt, əˈdəmˌbrāt | verb [with object] formal report or represent in outline: they have adumbrated the importance of education as a means of social transformation. • indicate faintly: the walls were not more than adumbrated by the meager light. • foreshadow or symbolize: what qualities in Christ are adumbrated by the vine?. • overshadow: her happy reminiscences were adumbrated by consciousness of something else. DERIVATIVES adumbration | ˌadəmˈbrāSHən | noun adumbrative | ˈadəmˌbrādiv, əˈdəmbrədiv, əˈdʌmbrətiv | adjective ORIGIN mid 16th century: from Latin adumbrat- ‘shaded’, from the verb adumbrare, from ad- ‘to’ (as an intensifier) + umbrare ‘cast a shadow’ (from umbra ‘shade’).

# adumbrative

adumbrate ad·um·brate | ˈadəmˌbrāt, əˈdəmˌbrāt | verb [with object] formal report or represent in outline: they have adumbrated the importance of education as a means of social transformation. • indicate faintly: the walls were not more than adumbrated by the meager light. • foreshadow or symbolize: what qualities in Christ are adumbrated by the vine?. • overshadow: her happy reminiscences were adumbrated by consciousness of something else. DERIVATIVES adumbration | ˌadəmˈbrāSHən | noun adumbrative | ˈadəmˌbrādiv, əˈdəmbrədiv, əˈdʌmbrətiv | adjective ORIGIN mid 16th century: from Latin adumbrat- ‘shaded’, from the verb adumbrare, from ad- ‘to’ (as an intensifier) + umbrare ‘cast a shadow’ (from umbra ‘shade’).

# adust

adust | əˈdəst | adjective archaic 1 scorched; burnt. 2 gloomy; melancholic. ORIGIN late Middle English: from French aduste or Latin adustus ‘burnt’, from adurere, from ad ‘to’ (as an intensifier) + urere ‘to burn’.

# Advaita

Advaita Ad·vai·ta | ədˈvīdə | noun Hinduism a Vedantic doctrine that identifies the individual self (atman) with the ground of reality (brahman). It is associated especially with the Indian philosopher Shankara (c 788–820). ORIGIN Sanskrit, literally ‘non-duality’.

# advance

advance ad·vance | ədˈvan(t)s | verb 1 [no object] move forward in a purposeful way: she stood up and advanced toward him | the troops advanced on the capital. • move forward in time: as the twentieth century advanced, other forms of entertainment rapidly took over | (advancing as adjective) : she hurried as fast as her advancing years would permit. • [with object] cause (an event) to occur at an earlier date than planned: I advanced the date of the meeting by several weeks. 2 make or cause to make progress: [no object] : our knowledge is advancing all the time | [with object] : it was a chance to advance his own interests. • [no object] (especially of shares of stock) increase in price: two stocks advanced for every one that fell. 3 [with object] put forward (a theory or suggestion): the hypothesis I wish to advance in this article. 4 [with two objects] lend (money) to (someone): the bank advanced them a loan. • pay (money) to (someone) before it is due: he advanced me a month's salary. noun 1 a forward movement: the rebels' advance on Madrid was well under way | the advance of civilization figurative. 2 a development or improvement: genuine advances in engineering techniques | decades of great scientific advance. • an increase or rise in amount, value, or price: bond prices posted vigorous advances. 3 an amount of money paid before it is due or for work only partly completed: the author was paid a $250,000 advance | I asked for an advance on next month's salary. • a loan: an advance from the bank. 4 (usually advances) an approach made to someone, typically with the aim of initiating a sexual encounter: women accused him of making improper advances | earlier in her career a male superior made advances to her | he claims to have rejected her advances on four separate occasions. adjective done, sent, or supplied beforehand: advance notice | advance payment. PHRASES in advance | ˌin ədˈvan(t)s | ahead in time: you need to book weeks in advance. in advance of | in ədˈvan(t)s əv | ahead of in time or space; before: we went on ahead in advance of the main group. DERIVATIVES advancer | ədˈvan(t)sər | noun ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French avance (noun), avancer (verb), from late Latin abante ‘in front’, from ab ‘from’ + ante ‘before’. The initial a- was erroneously assimilated to ad- in the 16th century.

# advanced

advanced ad·vanced | ədˈvan(t)st | adjective 1 modern and recently developed: the team developed advanced techniques for measuring and controlling the noise of the submarines | advanced technology | his advanced views made him unpopular. 2 far on or ahead in development or progress: negotiations are at an advanced stage | people of advanced years. • having or suitable for a high level of knowledge or skill: the content of at least some programs should be at an advanced level | an advanced course | passages that require the skills of an advanced performer. 3 Philippine English (of a clock or watch) showing a time ahead of the correct time: my watch is advanced.

# advancement

advancement ad·vance·ment | ədˈvan(t)sm(ə)nt | noun the process of promoting a cause or plan: their lives were devoted to the advancement of science. • the promotion of a person in rank or status: opportunities for career advancement. • development or improvement: technological advancements. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French avancement, from avancer ‘to advance’.

# advancer

advance ad·vance | ədˈvan(t)s | verb 1 [no object] move forward in a purposeful way: she stood up and advanced toward him | the troops advanced on the capital. • move forward in time: as the twentieth century advanced, other forms of entertainment rapidly took over | (advancing as adjective) : she hurried as fast as her advancing years would permit. • [with object] cause (an event) to occur at an earlier date than planned: I advanced the date of the meeting by several weeks. 2 make or cause to make progress: [no object] : our knowledge is advancing all the time | [with object] : it was a chance to advance his own interests. • [no object] (especially of shares of stock) increase in price: two stocks advanced for every one that fell. 3 [with object] put forward (a theory or suggestion): the hypothesis I wish to advance in this article. 4 [with two objects] lend (money) to (someone): the bank advanced them a loan. • pay (money) to (someone) before it is due: he advanced me a month's salary. noun 1 a forward movement: the rebels' advance on Madrid was well under way | the advance of civilization figurative. 2 a development or improvement: genuine advances in engineering techniques | decades of great scientific advance. • an increase or rise in amount, value, or price: bond prices posted vigorous advances. 3 an amount of money paid before it is due or for work only partly completed: the author was paid a $250,000 advance | I asked for an advance on next month's salary. • a loan: an advance from the bank. 4 (usually advances) an approach made to someone, typically with the aim of initiating a sexual encounter: women accused him of making improper advances | earlier in her career a male superior made advances to her | he claims to have rejected her advances on four separate occasions. adjective done, sent, or supplied beforehand: advance notice | advance payment. PHRASES in advance | ˌin ədˈvan(t)s | ahead in time: you need to book weeks in advance. in advance of | in ədˈvan(t)s əv | ahead of in time or space; before: we went on ahead in advance of the main group. DERIVATIVES advancer | ədˈvan(t)sər | noun ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French avance (noun), avancer (verb), from late Latin abante ‘in front’, from ab ‘from’ + ante ‘before’. The initial a- was erroneously assimilated to ad- in the 16th century.

# advancing

advance ad·vance | ədˈvan(t)s | verb 1 [no object] move forward in a purposeful way: she stood up and advanced toward him | the troops advanced on the capital. • move forward in time: as the twentieth century advanced, other forms of entertainment rapidly took over | (advancing as adjective) : she hurried as fast as her advancing years would permit. • [with object] cause (an event) to occur at an earlier date than planned: I advanced the date of the meeting by several weeks. 2 make or cause to make progress: [no object] : our knowledge is advancing all the time | [with object] : it was a chance to advance his own interests. • [no object] (especially of shares of stock) increase in price: two stocks advanced for every one that fell. 3 [with object] put forward (a theory or suggestion): the hypothesis I wish to advance in this article. 4 [with two objects] lend (money) to (someone): the bank advanced them a loan. • pay (money) to (someone) before it is due: he advanced me a month's salary. noun 1 a forward movement: the rebels' advance on Madrid was well under way | the advance of civilization figurative. 2 a development or improvement: genuine advances in engineering techniques | decades of great scientific advance. • an increase or rise in amount, value, or price: bond prices posted vigorous advances. 3 an amount of money paid before it is due or for work only partly completed: the author was paid a $250,000 advance | I asked for an advance on next month's salary. • a loan: an advance from the bank. 4 (usually advances) an approach made to someone, typically with the aim of initiating a sexual encounter: women accused him of making improper advances | earlier in her career a male superior made advances to her | he claims to have rejected her advances on four separate occasions. adjective done, sent, or supplied beforehand: advance notice | advance payment. PHRASES in advance | ˌin ədˈvan(t)s | ahead in time: you need to book weeks in advance. in advance of | in ədˈvan(t)s əv | ahead of in time or space; before: we went on ahead in advance of the main group. DERIVATIVES advancer | ədˈvan(t)sər | noun ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French avance (noun), avancer (verb), from late Latin abante ‘in front’, from ab ‘from’ + ante ‘before’. The initial a- was erroneously assimilated to ad- in the 16th century.

# advantage

advantage ad·van·tage | ədˈvan(t)ij | noun a condition or circumstance that puts one in a favorable or superior position: companies with a computerized database are at an advantage | she had an advantage over her mother's generation. • the opportunity to gain something; benefit or profit: you could learn something to your advantage | he saw some advantage in the proposal. • a favorable or desirable circumstance or feature; a benefit: the village's proximity to the town is an advantage. • Tennis a player's score in a game when they have won the first point after deuce (and will win the game if they win the next point): “Advantage, Federer.”. verb [with object] put in a favorable or more favorable position. PHRASES have the advantage of dated be in a stronger position than. take advantage of 1 make unfair demands on (someone) who cannot or will not resist; exploit or make unfair use of for one's own benefit: people tend to take advantage of a placid nature. • dated sexually exploit (someone): he used his position to take advantage of women. 2 make good use of the opportunities offered by (something): take full advantage of the facilities available. to advantage in a way which displays or makes good use of the best aspects of something: her shoes showed off her legs to advantage | plan your space to its best advantage. turn something to advantage (also turn something to one's advantage) handle or respond to something in such a way as to benefit from it: they dominated the first half of the game but failed to turn it to advantage. ORIGIN Middle English: from Old French avantage, from avant ‘in front’, from late Latin abante (see advance).

