# aerology

aerology aer·ol·o·gy | eˈräləjē | noun dated the study of the atmosphere, especially away from ground level. DERIVATIVES aerological | ˈˌerōˈläjəkəl, ˈˌerəˈläjəkəl, -əˈlɒjik(ə)l | adjective

# aeronaut

aeronaut aer·o·naut | ˈerōˌnôt, ˈerōˌnät | noun dated a traveler in a hot-air balloon, airship, or other flying craft: watching aeronauts take off in untethered balloon flights became a form of public entertainment. ORIGIN late 18th century: from French aéronaute, from Greek aēr ‘air’ + nautēs ‘sailor’.

# aeronautic

aeronautical aer·o·nau·ti·cal | ˌerōˈnôdək(ə)l, ˌerōˈnädək(ə)l | (aeronautic | ˌerōˈnôdik, ˌerōˈnädik |) adjective relating to the science or practice of building or flying aircraft: he went on to study aeronautical engineering at the Air Force Academy.

# aeronautical

aeronautical aer·o·nau·ti·cal | ˌerōˈnôdək(ə)l, ˌerōˈnädək(ə)l | (aeronautic | ˌerōˈnôdik, ˌerōˈnädik |) adjective relating to the science or practice of building or flying aircraft: he went on to study aeronautical engineering at the Air Force Academy.

# aeronautics

aeronautics aer·o·nau·tics | ˌerōˈnôdiks, ˌerōˈnädiks | plural noun [treated as singular] the science or practice of travel through the air: he received his master's degree in aeronautics and astronautics from the university in 1989. ORIGIN early 19th century: from modern Latin aeronautica ‘matters relating to aeronautics’, from Greek (see aeronaut).

# aerophagia

aerophagia aer·o·pha·gia | ˌerəˈfāj(ē)ə | noun Medicine the swallowing of air, whether deliberately to stimulate belching, accidentally, or as an involuntary habit.

# aerophagy

aerophagy noun [mass noun] Medicine the swallowing of air.

# aerophone

aerophone aer·o·phone | ˈerōˌfōn | noun Music a wind instrument.

# aeroplane

aeroplane aer·o·plane | ˈerəˌplān | noun British English a powered flying vehicle with fixed wings and a weight greater than that of the air it displaces; an airplane: before this trip, I had never been on an aeroplane | a toy aeroplane. ORIGIN late 19th century: from French aéroplane, from aéro- ‘air’ + Greek -planos ‘wandering’.

# Aerosol

aerosol aer·o·sol | ˈerəˌsôl | noun a substance enclosed under pressure and able to be released as a fine spray, typically by means of a propellant gas. • a container holding an aerosol. • Chemistry a colloidal suspension of particles dispersed in air or gas: the organisms are spread in the aerosols generated by showers. ORIGIN 1920s: from aero- + sol2.

